Added link guidance content (#240)
redhat-documentation/supplementary-style-guide: supplementary_style_guide/style_guidelines/links.adoc

[[links]]
= Links

[[cross-references]]
== Cross-references

Follow these guidelines when adding cross-references within your documentation:

* Include cross-references only when necessary.
* Use hyperlinks and use them consistently.

.Example AsciiDoc: Cross-reference
----
For more information about <topic>, see xref:<link>[<link_text>].
----

[[external-links]]
== External links

Follow these guidelines when linking externally:

> * Use hyperlinks and use them consistently.

Reviewer: @bergerhoffer you commented in the original PR about this and I agree with you, it's not very helpful or clear what it's trying to say. Maybe just ' Use hyperlinks' ?

Author: Thanks @ndeevy! I adjusted this to say to use hyperlinks unless the URL is an example URL or is otherwise inaccessible. 

I also removed the hyperlink guidance from the cross-references section (because those would always be hyperlinks), and instead replaced it with some guidance on including info right there instead of xreffing if it's critical.

PTAL at these updates and let me know what you think! Diff is here: https://github.com/redhat-documentation/supplementary-style-guide/pull/240/commits/b6ed97fb477f1e4f089e471eb928f238c89486e4

Reviewer: Cleaner, clearer, awesome. LGTM

> * Avoid links to external sites when possible. External links can change or be unreliable.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Maybe consider adding `When linking to external sites, use URLs with top-level domain names, if possible.` E.g. `https://prometheus.io` vs `https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/management_api/`. I'm not sure this is necessary, but it might help reduce broken external links.

> * Use hyperlinks unless the URL is an example URL or is otherwise inaccessible to users.

Reviewer 2: Consider cross-referencing the ISG guidance on sample URLs: the "Using addresses in examples" section here: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=elements-web-ip-email-addresses

Author: @bburt-rh So we don't actually ever link to the ISG from the SSG (since the SSG is public, and the ISG is not available to everyone outside of RH). We also avoid naming the sections too, but if you think it's worthwhile I could add something like 

```
See the _IBM Style Guide_ for information about using addresses in examples.
```

wdyt?

Author: Thanks, updated!

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 2: These are relatively common HTML hyperlink concepts that have been around for awhile and are easy to find more info about (as you discovered!). I guess it depends on the level of HTML knowledge we're assuming about the writers using the SSG. Is it typical that the average tech writer working in a docs-as-code, Asciidoc workflow would know these concepts? My view is "yes." Maybe other people have a different view...

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 3: I'm not familiar with those terms either, and would appreciate an explanation in the guide.

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer: This line is from the original guidance, which was for a much broader set of situations than docs. But I think you've got a point, Sharon and Breda, they're probably unknown to tech writers.
So maybe this line is not applicable to the documentation case really because we're being prescriptive about what to do in the rest of this guidance and writers are probably not in a position to use such types of links anyway? If that's the case, we could remove it.

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Author: So I just checked and apparently it is possible to define a link in AsciiDoc with a nofollow option. Would look something like this:

```
link:www.example.com[My example link, opts=nofollow]
```
So I think that this guidance is valuable to keep. I personally didn't know much about the difference of the two, other than knowing that you have to do something special to make a link "nofollow". 

However, I don't think we need to go too deep into explanations here. Maybe we could make it clearer that the default is followable/crawlable, and you'd have to do something special to enable "nofollow", and to not do that :)

What about something like this:

```suggestion
* By default, links are followable and crawlable. Do not use the "nofollow" link option unless absolutely necessary.
```

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 3: Your suggestion LGTM @bergerhoffer!

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Author: Thanks @bredamc, I pushed the change (so that if @bburt-rh and @sbmetz agree, this can be approved if otherwise ready).

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer: This makes sense!

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 4: That works for me! Thanks!

> * Default to followable, crawlable links. Do not use "nofollow" links unless absolutely necessary.

Author: Thanks all! @sbmetz would you mind approving the PR officially if it looks okay to you? (You go to files changed tab -> review changes -> hit the 'approve' radio button)

* Do not use bare URLs. Bare URLs are unhelpful because they do not provide adequate context about the link target.
* Avoid deep links (to a specific page or image from another company) to prevent an ongoing maintenance responsibility and to prevent bypassing a website's legal information.

.Example AsciiDoc: External link
----
For more information about <topic>, see link:<link>[<link_text>].
----

[[link-text]]
== Link text

Follow these guidelines when specifying link text:

* Contextually describe what the user will find at the target location so that they can decide if they want to leave their current location.
* Use a concise sentence or sentence fragment as the link text.

> * Do not use bare URLs. Bare URLs are unhelpful because they do not provide adequate context about the link target.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps we should define what is meant by "bare URL". I assumed that a bare URL is a link without link text, so I'm not sure if this point makes sense in this section, given that it's already included in the "External links" section? Perhaps it should be included in the Cross-references section instead?

Author: @bredamc I actually thought about changing "bare URL" to "raw URL" because that's the term I'm more familiar with. wdyt? Or I could give an example if that would help.

I do think that the raw URL piece is more applicable in the external links section, since I don't even think it's possible to give a raw URL for cross-references.

Reviewer 3: @bergerhoffer Apologies for not being more clear -- we should absolutely retain that point in the "External links" section. I meant that we should include it in the "Cross-references" section instead of in the "Link text" section, but I agree that there's no need if it's not possible to provide a raw URL in a cross-reference anyway! 

Whether we call it a bare URL or a raw URL, I think we should define what it is. When we say "Do not use bare URLs", do we mean "Always include link text"? If so, should we phrase it in that way for clarity? If we retain this point in the "Link text" section, should that text be moved to be the first point?

Reviewer 3: @bergerhoffer Apologies for the delay.

I think we should rephrase the current "Bare URLs" text as follows:
"Always include link text. _Bare URLs_ (URLs without explanatory information) are unhelpful because they do not provide adequate context about the link target."

Reviewer 3: Examples are always good -- similar to the picture that paints a thousand words ;)

Author: I think your suggested edit makes it crystal clear, thanks! Updated

Reviewer 3: One last tiny comment -- maybe reorder the list of points to list the "Do" statements first, and then the "Don't" statements?

Author: Done!
